V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASWE-0062.md

Author: Sergio: DONE

> ---

Reviewer: This weakness talks about app attestation but also covers local checks made by the app itself. Attestation should be carried out by a platform service and verified by a remote server. This is not the case in this weakness when it mentions _"Not verifying the app's signature, package identity, or binaries at runtime, so a repackaged copy runs unnoticed."_ or _“This weakness occurs when an app does not attest its own authenticity and integrity...”_

Reviewer: I would focus this weakness towards "integrity" in general instead of "attestation" like it was in the beta. It would complement MASWE-0064, which would still cover local runtime integrity checks for in-memory tampering. The way i see it:

- MASWE-0062: You have to verify app install source and signature, be it locally or using platform services.
- MASWE-0064: You have to protect the app against runtime tampering.

Reviewer: After discussing with @TheDauntless we concluded that it's okay for this to stay as "app Attestation" so it is aligned with MASWE-0059.

Local evidence gathered by the app itself (e.g. app signature) is also considered attestation as long as the evidence is sent to the backend and verified remotely.

title: App Attestation Not Implemented
id: MASWE-0062
alias: app-integrity
requirement: "The app implements app attestation."
platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [R]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0062

> attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0040, MAS-ATTACK-0069]

Reviewer: Missing `MAS-ATTACK-0068` _"Impersonating the app with scripts, bots, or **tampered clients when interacting with the backend**."_

```suggestion
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0040, MAS-ATTACK-0068, MAS-ATTACK-0069]
```

mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-CODE-1]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-RESILIENCE-2]

>   cwe: [347, 693]

Reviewer: CWE 693 is discouraged for mappings since it's too high-level/generic.

```suggestion
  cwe: [347]
```

>   cwe: [347, 693]

Author: ```suggestion
  cwe: [347]
```

  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0104, MASWE-0106]
refs:
- https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/using-the-latest-code-signature-format

> - https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicecheck/preparing-to-use-the-app-attest-service

Reviewer: Missing android references

```suggestion
refs:
  - https://source.android.com/docs/security/features/apksigning
  - https://developer.android.com/google/play/integrity/verdicts
  - https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/pm/SigningInfo
  - https://github.com/android/keyattestation
  - https://source.android.com/docs/security/features/keystore/attestation
  - https://grapheneos.org/articles/attestation-compatibility-guide
  - https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/using-the-latest-code-signature-format
  - https://developer.apple.com/documentation/devicecheck/validating-apps-that-connect-to-your-server
```

status: new
---

## Overview

> This weakness occurs when an app does not attest its own authenticity and integrity, i.e. it implements no effective techniques to verify that the running binary is a genuine, unmodified copy of the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This weakness occurs when an app does not provide its backend with server-verifiable attestation evidence about the app instance (e.g. app signature), or when the backend does not validate and enforce that evidence to determine whether the app has the expected identity and integrity state.
```

> App attestation includes verifying the app's signature and binaries at runtime, detecting an invalid or unexpected signing certificate, and using platform attestation services that vouch for the app's identity (e.g. App Attest on iOS, Play Integrity app verdicts on Android). It also covers using current signing schemes: outdated formats, such as Android V1-only signatures or an iOS CodeDirectory version below 20400, weaken the platform's own integrity guarantees. Verifying the package or signature against expected values, which also provides official-store assurance, remains one of the applicable techniques.

Reviewer: - Align with device attestation

```suggestion
App attestation mechanisms let a backend assess whether requests come from a recognized app instance. The app collects evidence about its signing identity and integrity, protects that evidence with a cryptographic signature or platform-provided token, and sends it to the backend for verification and enforcement. This can include platform services such as Play Integrity or App Attest, and can also include app-defined integrity reports based on local signals

On Android, an app can use hardware-backed key attestation API to provide its backend with signed evidence of the app's package name, version code, and signing-certificate digests. Together with Android's enforcement of app signatures, this evidence lets the backend verify that the app was signed with an accepted key and detect copies that have been modified and re-signed. Alternatively, the app can use the Play Integrity API, which returns a Google-generated app-recognition verdict. Play Integrity requires Google Play services to be installed and available on the device.

On iOS, an app can use the App Attest service from the DeviceCheck framework. App Attest lets the app create a hardware-based key that Apple attests as belonging to a valid app instance. The backend validates the initial attestation and then uses the attested public key to verify request-bound assertions.
   
The code-signature format also affects platform-enforced integrity. Using outdated formats, such as Android V1-only signatures or an iOS CodeDirectory version below 20400, weaken the platform's own integrity guarantees.
```

## Modes of Introduction

- **No Runtime Integrity Verification**: Not verifying the app's signature, package identity, or binaries at runtime, so a repackaged copy runs unnoticed.

> - **No Platform App Attestation**: Not using platform services that attest the app's identity to the backend, so servers cannot distinguish genuine clients from modified ones.

Reviewer: - Remove consequences as stated in `.github/instructions/maswe.instructions.md:112: Modes must describe testable aspects and must not describe consequences.`
- Align with device attestation.

```suggestion
- **No Packaged App Integrity Verification or Attestation**: Not verifying the app's signing identity, package identity, or packaged executable files.
- **No Server-Verified App Integrity Signal**: Not providing the app's backend with an app-integrity signal.
- **Missing or Partial Server Attestation Verification or Enforcement**: Not verifying the integrity signals received at the backend or not enforcing verdicts.
```

- **Outdated Signing Schemes**: Signing releases with outdated formats (e.g. Android V1-only signatures, iOS CodeDirectory below version 20400) that are easier to abuse.

## Impact

> - **Bypass of Protection Mechanisms**: Attackers can strip security controls from a repackaged copy that still works against the backend, resulting in the circumvention of the app's defenses at scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Bypass of Protection Mechanisms**: Attackers can strip resiliency controls from a repackaged copy, making it easier to further analyze and reverse-engineer the application.
```

- **Compromise of Sensitive Data**: Attackers can distribute trojanized versions of the app that harvest credentials and data from the users they deceive, resulting in account compromise attributed to the app.

> - **Compromise of System Integrity and Business Operations**: Modified clients, cracked features, and clone apps circulate under the app's brand, resulting in revenue loss and reputational damage for the app owner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Compromise of System Integrity and Business Operations**: Modified clients, cracked features, and cloned apps circulate under the app's brand, resulting in revenue loss and reputational damage for the app owner.
```

## Mitigations

> - **Verify App Integrity at Runtime**: Check the app's signing certificate, package identity, and binaries at runtime against expected values, implementing checks in layers that are harder to patch out (e.g. native code).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Verify Packaged App Integrity**: Check the app's signing identity, package identity, and packaged executable files against expected values.
```
